LOCALE EXPLORER  :  by Steven R. Loomis, IBM
-------------------------

This is the source for the locale explorer CGI which is on IBM's
external website at:

    http://www10.software.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/icu/localeexplorer

 The purpose of this CGI is to (1) make available the locale data for
viewing, and (2) show off the ICU.  Hopefully, it will also be an
interesting and useful sample.  Please let us know (via the newsgroup)
if this is useful or not, if you have any questions, or comments..

 The tools and routines were also built to support locale explorer
first, however we are continuing to try to make them more general
purpose.  If you see something you think should be part of the ICU,
by all means file a bug and explain what you want and how it can be
made better!

 Locale explorer isn't quite as much of a 'ready-to-go' application as
some of the others in icuapps.  Installing it takes some familliarity
with and a running web server.  


BUILDING
--------

 To build the locale explorer, first you must have the ICU built and
installed of course (see ../README).  Secondly, the uconv and usort
projects should be built and installed.   In short, your best bet is
to simply type 'make install' from the top level of icuapps.

INSTALLING
----------

 After 'make install' is run in the locexp directory, the locale
explorer itself will be installed in PREFIX/bin and it's data will be
in the 'locexp' directory under the ICU's own installed data
directory. 

 If the binaries and data are left in these directories, then the
'locexp' program can simply be called directly as a CGI.  On one
server, it is installed this way: [apache syntax]

   # The prefix is /home/srl/II
   ScriptAlias /localeexplorer /home/srl/II/bin/locexp

 There are also some HTML and image files in the 'html'
directory. Change the URLPREFIX variable in locexp/Makefile.in such
that if URLPREFIX is set to '/~gumby/' for example, then the file
'explore.gif' is accessible as:

      /~gumby/localeexplorer/explore.gif


DEBUGGING
--------- 

 There is also a script called 'testVars.sh' in the tools directory
that can aid in command-line debugging. See that script for more
information. 

ICU-DATA
--------

 The locale explorer works best when installed with a few patches to
the ICU data.  The file 'icudata.tgz' contains some additional data
you may install in your icu data directory.  See the README in that
directory for more information.

 In addition, there are a few new locales thrown in here. They are to
be considered in 'draft' stage. Please give them a try!  You can add
them to your index.txt [the ICU one, not the one in the locexp
directory] if you want them to show up in the locale explorer's list.
Consider these a bonus.

 There are some make targets in the top-level locexp/Makefile.in which
will assist you in using this data.
  Note that none of these will install the data for you.

#  make icudata-dir 

    This will unpack the .tgz into the icudata directory 

#  make icudata-res   icudata-conv 

    These targets will build the resource and converter files,
    respectively. 

#  make icudata-all  

     All of the above.







